Lumerical License agreement

THIS IS A LEGAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN YOU AND LUMERICAL COMPUTATIONAL SOLUTIONS, 
INC. BEFORE CONTINUING WITH THE INSTALLATION OF THE SOFTWARE, YOU MUST READ, 
ACKNOWLEDGE AND ACCEPT THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE SOFTWARE LICENSE 
AGREEMENT WHICH FOLLOWS. WHEN PROMPTED, PLEASE INDICATE WHETHER YOU ACCEPT OR 
DO NOT ACCEPT. IF YOU DO NOT ACCEPT THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE SOFTWARE 
LICENSE, YOU MAY NOT USE THE SOFTWARE AND YOU DO NOT BECOME A LICENSEE UNDER 
THIS AGREEMENT.

NOTE:  As described in paragraphs 4 and 5 below, using the Software for a Trial 
or Teaching License also operates as your consent to the transmission of 
certain computer information during activation and use of the Software during 
such Trial or Teaching License.  

1.	GRANT OF LICENSE. LUMERICAL COMPUTATIONAL SOLUTIONS, INC. (“LUMERICAL”) 
grants to you (“Licensee”), a limited end-user, non-exclusive license to 
reproduce and use for personal or internal business purposes during the Term 
(as provided in paragraph 13) the executable code version of the Software 
Product ordered by Licensee and authorized by LUMERICAL (the “Software”) for 
the number of users authorized by the license option selected and paid for by 
Licensee at the time of purchase, subject to the terms and conditions set forth 
in this license agreement.  If properly licensed, Licensee has the right to use 
the version of the Software installed during the installation process up to the 
end of the Term.  Any copy of the Software must contain all of the original 
Proprietary notices. 

2.	PROPRIETARY RIGHTS AND OTHER RESTRICTIONS. The Software (including any 
copy or component thereof) is owned by LUMERICAL or its suppliers and licensors 
and is protected by Canadian and other copyright and patent laws and 
international treaty provisions. The Software copy is licensed and you are not 
an owner of any copy thereof. LUMERICAL hereby reserves all rights not 
explicitly granted in this license agreement. Licensee may not rent or lease 
the Software.  Except as provided in paragraph 1, Licensee may not modify or 
translate the Software. Licensee may not reverse engineer, decompile or 
disassemble the Software, except to the extent expressly authorized by 
applicable law.  In addition, Licensee may not: work around any technical 
limitations in the Software; publish the Software for others to copy; use the 
Software for commercial software hosting services; or allow the Software to be 
used or accessed by unauthorized persons or more than the number of users 
authorized by LUMERICAL.  

3.	LICENSE FOR THIRD PARTY SOFTWARE. LUMERICAL has been granted licenses 
to distribute certain third party software that may be incorporated in the 
Software. As a condition of those licenses, LUMERICAL is required to distribute 
such software subject to specific terms and conditions, which may be different 
from or additional to those contained herein for LUMERICAL's Software. Licensee 
understands and agrees that acceptance of this license agreement also confirms 
Licensee's acceptance of the applicable provisions for use, including the 
restrictions on use, of such third party software.  In addition, Licensee 
acknowledges that certain third party software components incorporated in the 
Software may include elements licensed or procured from certain open source 
libraries (“Open Source Elements”), and use of such Open Source Elements may be 
subject to the terms and conditions of the relevant open source library.  The 
current applicable provisions for third party software may be viewed at 
www.lumerical.com/license_3rd_party.php. Licensee may also contact LUMERICAL to 
obtain the current applicable provisions. Licensee's breach of the applicable 
provisions of any third party's license terms shall also be considered a 
material breach of this license agreement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no 
provisions of a third party’s license terms shall be deemed to waive or amend 
any of the terms and conditions of this license agreement.  In the event of any 
conflict between the terms and conditions of this license agreement and the 
terms and conditions of any third party license, the provisions of this license 
agreement will prevail.

4.	TRIAL LICENSE: INSTALLATION AND USE OPTIONS. For a Trial License, the 
Software may be installed on up to the maximum number of computers expressly 
authorized by LUMERICAL and such authorized computers shall be connected to the 
internet at all times that the trial Software is in use. During a Trial 
License, the Software may be used for evaluation purposes only.  Installation 
and activation of the Software during the Trial License associates the use of 
the Software with a specific computer, and the Software may send information 
about the Software and such computer it is installed on to LUMERICAL. This 
information may include the version, language and product key of the Software, 
the Internet protocol address of the computer, and information derived from the 
hardware configuration of such computer to uniquely identify such computer. By 
using the Software during a Trial License, Licensee consents to the 
transmission of such information.

5.	TEACHING LICENSE: INSTALLATION AND USE OPTIONS. For a Teaching License, 
the Software may be installed on up to the maximum number of computers 
expressly authorized by LUMERICAL and such authorized computers shall be 
connected to the internet at all times that the teaching Software is in use. 
During a Teaching License, the Software may be used for teaching and 
instructional purposes only.  Installation and activation of the Software 
during the Teaching License associates the use of the Software with a specific 
computer, and the Software may send information about the Software and such 
computer it is installed on to LUMERICAL. This information may include the 
version, language and product key of the Software, the Internet protocol 
address of such computer, and information derived from the hardware 
configuration of such computer uniquely identifying such specific computer. By 
using the Software during a Teaching License, Licensee consents to the 
transmission of such information.

6.	COMMERCIAL ANNUAL LICENSE: INSTALLATION AND USE OPTIONS. You may use 
the Software for any legal purpose with one of the following commercial license 
options chosen at the time of purchase:

6a.	Single computer, single simulation option. The Software may be 
installed on any number of computers but the Software may only be operated by a 
single person, on a single computer at any given time. The computer must be 
connected to the HASP hardware key at all times the Software is used. One 
simulation may be running at any given time.

6b.	Concurrent user, multi-simulation option. The Software may be installed 
on any number of computers, including different computer nodes within a cluster 
of computers. Licensee may have as many users simultaneously operating the 
Software at any given time as the number of concurrent User Keys purchased. 
Such users may have as many simultaneous simulations running at any given time 
as the number of concurrent Simulation Keys purchased. Surplus users will be 
denied access by LUMERICAL's License Manager (LM); surplus simulations will be 
prohibited from running by the LM. A single copy of LM must be running on a 
computer on the network that is connected to the HASP hardware key.

6c.	Multi-simulation only option. Licensees under paragraphs 7a or 7b that 
have purchased LUMERICAL’s Remote Engine Extension (REE) have the option, in 
addition, of installing the REE in a different designated location on any 
number of computers including different computer nodes within a cluster of 
computers for the principal purpose of running simulations in a distributed 
computing environment. Licensee may have as many simultaneous simulations 
running at any given time as the number of concurrent REE Simulation Keys 
purchased for the designated location. A separate copy of LM must be running on 
a computer at the designated location that is connected to the HASP hardware 
key.

7.	NON-COMMERCIAL ANNUAL LICENSE: INSTALLATION AND USE OPTIONS. The 
installation and use of the Software under one of the non-commercial license 
options is restricted to the following non-commercial purposes: teaching, 
classroom work, or academic research at accredited degree granting 
institutions; or other non-proprietary, non-classified research in the public 
domain. Any other use is expressly prohibited. The Software may be used for any 
legal purposes with one of the following non-commercial license options chosen 
at the time of purchase:

7a.	Single computer, single simulation option. The Software may be 
installed on any number of computers but the Software may only be operated by a 
single person, on a single computer at any given time. The computer must be 
connected to the HASP hardware key at all times the Software is used. One 
simulation may be running at any given time.

7b.	Concurrent user, multi-simulation option. The Software may be installed 
on any number of computers, including different computer nodes within a cluster 
of computers. Licensee may have as many users simultaneously operating the 
Software at any given time as the number of concurrent User Keys purchased. 
Such users may have as many simultaneous simulations running at any given time 
as the number of concurrent Simulation Keys purchased. Surplus users will be 
denied access by LUMERICAL's License Manager (LM); surplus simulations will be 
prohibited from running by the LM. A single copy of LM must be running on a 
computer on the network that is connected to the HASP hardware key.

7c.	Multi-simulation only option. Licensees under paragraphs 8a or 8b that 
have purchased LUMERICAL’s Remote Engine Extension (REE) have the option, in 
addition, of installing the REE in a different designated location on any 
number of computers including different computer nodes within a cluster of 
computers for the principal purpose of running simulations in a distributed 
computing environment. Licensee may have as many simultaneous simulations 
running at any given time as the number of concurrent REE Simulation Keys 
purchased for the designated location. A separate copy of LM must be running on 
a computer at the designated location that is connected to the HASP hardware 
key.

8.	PREMIUM SUPPORT PLAN. LUMERICAL's Premium Support Plan is included as 
part of the License during the Term so long as the Software continues to be 
generally available for sale and license by LUMERICAL. The Premium Support Plan 
comprises: phone and e-mail support Monday to Friday from 9am to 5pm, Pacific 
Standard Time; free and timely access to software updates, including major 
upgrades; regular updates of relevant technical information; access to trial 
downloads of any LUMERICAL product; and access to prototype and beta versions 
of new products.  Requests for support shall be made through the following 
e-mail address support@lumerical.com.  In the event the Software is 
discontinued during the Term or no longer generally available for license by 
LUMERICAL, Licensee shall have the option to use the Software for the remainder 
of the Term without access to LUMERICAL’s Premium Support Plan.

9.	RETURN POLICY. Licensee may receive a full refund if within thirty (30) 
days from the date of delivery of the relevant Software by LUMERICAL (the 
“Acceptance Period”) if Licensee terminates this License for any reason within 
the Acceptance Period.  

10.	WARRANTY. LUMERICAL warrants that: (a) it has the right to grant the 
License rights hereunder; (b) the physical media provided for the Software 
shall be free from defects in material and workmanship for a period of ninety 
(90) days from delivery, or it will be replaced by LUMERICAL at no cost to 
Licensee; and (c) for a period of one (1) year from delivery or for the Term of 
the License, whichever is less, each copy of the Software provided by LUMERICAL 
will conform in all material respects to the description of the Software in the 
Reference Guide provided by LUMERICAL with the Software at the time of 
delivery.  EXCEPT AS SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, LUMERICAL MAKES NO OTHER 
WARRANTY, REPRESENTATION OR CONDITION AND, TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY 
LAW, LUMERICAL EXPLICITLY DISCLAIMS, AND LICENSEE ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT HAS NOT 
RELIED ON, ANY WARRANTIES, REPRESENTATIONS AND CONDITIONS, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, 
STATUTORY OR OTHERWISE, OF ANY KIND WHATSOEVER WITH RESPECT TO THE SOFTWARE 
PROVIDED UNDER THIS AGREEMENT, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED 
TO TITLE, QUALITY, MERCHANTABILITY, WORKMANSHIP, HIDDEN DEFECT OR FITNESS FOR A 
PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE.  LUMERICAL EXPRESSLY DOES NOT WARRANT THAT THE 
SOFTWARE, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, WILL BE ERROR FREE, OPERATE WITHOUT 
INTERRUPTION, OR DELIVERED FREE OF ANY THIRD PARTY CLAIMS BY WAY OF 
INFRINGEMENT OR OTHERWISE.  LUMERICAL DOES NOT WARRANT OR MAKE ANY 
REPRESENTATION REGARDING THE USE OR THE RESULTS OF THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE IN 
TERMS OF CORRECTNESS, ACCURACY, RELIABILITY OR OTHERWISE.  THE SOFTWARE SHOULD 
NOT BE RELIED ON AS THE SOLE BASIS TO SOLVE A PROBLEM WHOSE INCORRECT SOLUTION 
COULD RESULT IN INJURY TO PERSON, LOSS OF MONEY OR DAMAGE TO PROPERTY. IF THE 
SOFTWARE IS RELIED ON IN SUCH A MANNER, IT IS AT THE LICENSEE'S OWN RISK. 
LUMERICAL AND ITS LICENSORS EXPLICITLY DISCLAIM ALL LIABILITY FOR SUCH USE OR 
RELIANCE TO THE EXTENT ALLOWED BY LAW. 

11.	Exclusive Remedy.  In the event that the Software does not operate as 
warranted, Licensee's exclusive remedy and LUMERICAL's sole liability under 
this warranty shall be a) the correction or workaround by LUMERICAL of major 
defects within a reasonable time, or b) should such correction or workaround 
prove neither satisfactory nor practical, termination of the relevant License 
and refund of the initial License fee paid to LUMERICAL for the Software. All 
requests for warranty assistance should be directed to Lumerical Computational 
Solutions at the e-mail address set forth in paragraph 8.   

12.	LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE 
LAW, IN NO EVENT AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY SHALL LUMERICAL, ITS LICENSORS OR 
ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE TO LICENSEE FOR ANY COSTS OF SUBSTITUTE PRODUCTS, OR 
FOR ANY CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, PUNITIVE OR INDIRECT DAMAGES OF ANY 
KIND ARISING OUT OF THE LICENSE OF, USE OF, OR INABILITY TO USE ANY SOFTWARE OR 
DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF LUMERICAL HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH 
DAMAGES.  IN NO EVENT SHALL LUMERICAL'S OR ITS SUPPLIERS' LIABILITY EXCEED THE 
LICENSE FEE, IF ANY, PAID BY LICESEE. THIS LIMITATION OF LIABILITY IS REFLECTED 
IN THE PRICE OF THE SOFTWARE LICENSE AND SHALL APPLY.  ANY LIABILITY OF 
LUMERICAL AND ITS LICENSORS (WHETHER IN RELATION TO BREACH OF CONTRACT, 
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) SHALL NOT IN TOTAL EXCEED THE AMOUNT PAID TO LUMERICAL 
UNDER THIS AGREEMENT IN THE TWELVE MONTH PERIOD PRECEDING THE CLAIM IN 
QUESTION, FOR THE SOFTWARE WITH RESPECT TO WHICH THE LIABILITY IN QUESTION 
ARISES, AS INSTALLED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS AGREEMENT.    

13.	TERM.

13a.	Trial Licenses. For Trial Licenses, this license agreement is effective 
for a period of 30 days from the date of download of the Software.

13b.	Teaching Licenses. For Teaching Licenses, this license agreement is 
effective for a period of time as specified by LUMERICAL, but not to exceed six 
months in duration.

13c.	Commercial and Non-Commercial Annual Licenses. For Commercial and 
Non-Commercial Annual Licenses, Licensee understands and agrees that each 
Annual License will expire automatically immediately after its corresponding 
one (1) year period, unless Licensee renews its License by remitting the 
then-current annual License fee. Licensee understands that the Software will 
stop operating unless Licensee pays the License fee and is provided new annual 
license codes. Licensee understands and agrees that the Premium Support Plan 
for each Annual License will terminate automatically upon expiration of the 
Annual License Term, subject to the continued availability of the Software as 
further provided in paragraph 8.

13d.	Commercial and Non-Commercial Multi-year Licenses. In the event 
Licensee has purchased and paid for a multi-year License, Licensee understands 
and agrees that such Multi-Year License will expire automatically immediately 
after its corresponding multi-year license period paid for, and that the 
Software will stop operating unless further license fees are paid for by 
Licensee.  Licensee further acknowledges that future licenses for the Software 
and provision of related Premium Support services may be discontinued by 
LUMERICAL in the future at any time. Licensee acknowledges that for multi-year 
Licenses, LUMERICAL may send annual license codes to authorize Licensee’s 
continued operation of the Software.

14.	TERMINATION. This license agreement will terminate automatically upon 
your failure to comply with any term or condition of this license agreement, 
including without limitation if Licensee has failed to pay any License fees 
due.  Licensee shall not be entitled to any refund if this License is 
terminated, except for License fees paid for any Software for which the 
Acceptance Period has not expired at the time of termination. Upon termination, 
Licensee shall promptly return all but archival copies of the Software in 
Licensee's possession or control, or promptly provide written certification of 
their destruction. In addition to the foregoing, for Trial Licenses, this 
license agreement may be terminated at any time by LUMERICAL. 

15.	TAXES, DUTIES, CUSTOMS. Absent appropriate exemption certificates or 
other conclusive proof of tax exempt status, Licensee shall pay all applicable 
sales, use, excise, value-added, and other taxes, duties, levies, assessments, 
and governmental charges payable in connection with this license agreement or 
the Licenses granted hereunder, excluding taxes based on LUMERICAL’s income, 
for which LUMERICAL shall be solely responsible. 

16.	MISCELLANEOUS. This license agreement sets forth the entire agreement 
between Licensee and LUMERICAL, and supersedes any prior agreement, whether 
written or oral, relating to the subject matter of this license agreement.  Any 
purchase order or similar document which is issued by Licensee in connection 
with this license agreement does not modify this license agreement.  No 
modification of this license agreement will be effective unless it is in 
writing, is signed by each party, and expressly provides that it amends this 
license agreement. 
The parties disclaim the application of the United Nations Convention on the 
International Sale of Goods. This license agreement is governed by the laws of 
the province of British Columbia, Canada, and the federal laws of Canada 
applicable therein without reference to conflict of laws principles. All 
disputes arising out of this license agreement shall be litigated or otherwise 
resolved exclusively in the province of British Columbia. Licensee may not 
export or re-export the Software or documentation without the appropriate 
Canadian or foreign government licenses. If any provision of this license 
agreement is ruled invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the validity of 
the remaining portions of this license agreement.
Licensee may assign this license agreement for the Software on a one-time basis 
during the Term for a fully-paid License provided that: Licensee retains no 
copies of the Software; the assignee agrees to be bound by the terms of this 
license agreement; and Licensee provides written notice to LUMERICAL of such 
assignment.  
Licensee must affix the following legend to each copy of the Software: “Use, 
duplication, reproduction, or transfer of this commercial software and 
accompanying documentation is subject to and restricted in accordance to a 
license agreement provided by LUMERICAL COMPUTATIONAL SOLUTIONS, INC.”
